Let's take a look at how we can get started installing Docker on a Mac.
So the first thing I'm going to do is come over to docker.com, and
then we can come to Developers, Getting started.
That gets me to this page.
That menu certainly may change,
but otherwise, just do a little search for Docker Desktop.
Now scrolling on down,
you'll notice that I have Docker Desktop, it
mentions something called Docker Hub,
which we'll talk about later, and then you also have an online
tool you can get too called Play with Docker. It's kind of a
browser‑based way to interact with Docker and a command line
right through your browser.
Now, with Docker Desktop, though, you'll notice that if I hover over it,
I can download for Mac, Windows, or if you're on Linux,
you can download Docker Engine,
and by clicking there it would take you to the different flavors of Linux,
and you can pick the appropriate engine. Now, for this particular
example though, I'll of course choose Download for Mac. And now that
this is done, we can simply double‑click it, this will extract it
and get it ready to run through, and then setup's pretty straight
forward you'll see.
Alright, so I can go ahead and drag that over to my Applications.
That will take a moment as it copies it.
And then from here,
I can go ahead and go into my apps, and we can
actually click on it to fire it up.
So I'm going to come on in, and I'll just search for Docker. There
it is. Click it. All right, now this will say,
hey,
I've downloaded it off the internet. Pretty standard. We'll hit Open, and
now you'll notice up in the corner here it's firing up.
Now, I've already had Docker on this machine,
so this will be slightly different than what you might see, but
once this whale is kind of done spinning up here,
you should see that Docker Engine has started.
There we go.
And now if I click on it,
you'll notice that Docker Desktop is running and that I
have some different menu items here.
Now,
one of the more important menu items you're going to see is Preferences on Mac.
So let me go to that real quick.
Now you'll see right off the bat that we can start Docker
when we log in, we can automatically check for updates,
include backups, send usage statistics,
all that fun stuff that you kind of see with a lot of applications. Down
here in the corner you'll notice that Docker is running. Now, I also,
because I've already had this running on this machine, have something
called Kubernetes that's running.
This is a way to run containers and orchestrate them in more robust
production‑type scenarios. Check out my Kubernetes for Developers course if
you're interested in more on that. Now coming back up,
we can go to Resources, and from here I can say, hey,
how many CPUs does Docker get? How much memory? What about the swap disk? And I
can adjust these things so that I don't eat up too much hard drive space and too
much memory because you can really max it out, and it will really push your
system to the max. Or you can really minimize it, and maybe Docker won't be
quite as fast or high performance,
but it would at least work if you have less memory on your machine. Now
we can also come on in, and you'll notice I have FILE SHARING. This is
going to be for something called volumes.
We're going to have a whole module on that coming up a little bit later in
the course, but this is basically a way for a running Docker container to
actually point back to a folder that's going to be on your local machine.
If we have to deal with proxies,
we could set up proxies here and even some network configuration,
which you normally don't need to mess around with at all.
Now coming on down. we have Docker Engine. This is one you
normally don't mess with at all.
We have Command Line features for experimental up‑and‑coming
features. We're not going to turn that on.
And then if you wanted,
you could turn on this other option called Kubernetes by
checking this Enable Kubernetes check box.
We're not going to worry about that one here,
but feel free to play with that if you'd like.
So that's what you're going to get out of the box, and what
we can also do is every now and then,
you might want to visually see what's going on with your containers.
So notice as I exited that screen,
I get to another dashboard screen, and currently I
don't have any containers running,
but it says I could run this command right here.
In fact,
we can just copy it, and then we could go to a command line, so
let me go ahead and do that. Let me go ahead and paste that in
now, and we'll go ahead and run it.
Now this just pulled an image that wasn't available on my
machine from something called Docker Hub down to my machine,
and it made this image available.
And we'll talk more about what that is and how you build custom
images as well throughout this course. Now from here,
let me close this, we'll come on back to our dashboard app now, and
notice that we have this condescending_ aryabhata, I'm not sure how
you say that, running on port 80 here. And we can click on it, we
can get log information, right now we don't have much, we can
inspect the container, get information about it,
get statistics about it, and this is all being done
visually through the dashboard.
Now I can also come up and stop the container, restart it,
go ahead and stop it again, and then we can delete it if we
wanted, and I wouldn't even have to worry about any of these
commands that we're going to learn later.
Now, I'm going to offer you want to know about these commands, because
we're going to be using them a lot, but this is a really nice feature of
Docker Desktop. It gives you this visual dashboard.
So that's an example of how to get it up and running on Mac. Now let's switch our focus to Windows.